in November of 1928 Herbert Hoover was
elected as president of the United
States this election happened during one
of the strongest US Stock Market rallies
in history following a complete decade
of very strong stock market performance
leading to one of the most expensive
stock markets in history this Euphoria
continued for a few months after the
election but was ultimately followed by
Black Tuesday and then the Great
Depression led to the stock market
declining for almost a full decade fast
forward to November of 1972 President
Nixon was elected right before the S&P
500 made a peak that wouldn't be
Revisited for 8 years fast forward to
November of 2000 President Bush was
elected this time marking almost the
exact peak of theom bubble once again
ending a 10-year long streak of rising
stocks and followed by a 10-year
downward streak these three years 1928
1972 2000 all marked absolutely massive
turning points for financial markets
ending extended periods of prosperity
and marking the beginning of painful
declines and all three of these turning
points were accompanied by major US
elections of course there are many
examples of Elections that did not lead
to these kinds of Market crashes or
extreme recessions but heading into the
2024 elections the stock market has been
experiencing one of the strongest
rallies in history and economic growth
was at the Forefront of the debate
because despite an extremely strong
stock market most people in the United
States aren't very happy about the state
of the economy us consumer sentiment is
at one of the most depressed levels
since the great financial crisis this is
a survey that's done by the University
of Michigan that has been measuring how
people feel about the future of the
economy going back to the 1950s and all
of the moments where consumer sentiment
has been at similar levels to today have
been associated with economic recessions
in the United States as indicated by
these gray bars consumers sentiment has
been around these levels since 2020 so
basically the entire duration of the
current Administration perhaps one of
the key reasons for why Trump was able
to win the presidency as many of his
policies were centered around the
promise of stronger economic growth in
fact as we discussed in the last video
the US Stock Market has reacted very
favorably to the news of Trump's Victory
the promise of further tax cuts on us
corporations and deregulation are both
boosting investor optimism but we had
very similar kind of optimism heading
into the 1928 1972 and 2000 elections in
fact we have quite a few key
similarities between these episodes and
today for example interest rates in the
United States in those three episodes
were in a very similar posture to today
in all four of these cases the Federal
Reserve the US Central Bank raised their
interest rate to about 5% and in all
four cases we see that the interest rate
dictated by the Federal Reserve was
higher than longer term interest traits
now that may sound a little bit
complicated but you've probably heard of
something called inverted yield curve
and that's exactly what happens when
this line is above this one as you can
see from this chart it doesn't happen
very often but when it does it has huge
implications for the economy looking
forward and it tends to be followed by
an economic recession so in all three of
these episodes the seeds for a recession
were sown long before the actual
election results so the elected
president really couldn't do much to
save the economy now Donald Trump
himself has repeatedly said that the US
economy could go into another Great
Depression if he wasn't elected toward a
Great Depression you're going to have a
depression his main argument is that his
economic policies are generally more
favorable to the economy things like tax
cuts and deregulation are indeed things
that can stimulate economic growth so
can Trump's favorable policies really
avoid a large economic downturn well
let's rewind to the US elections that
occurred right before the Great
Depression in November of 1928 right
here Herbert Hoover supported the
Revenue Act of 1928 which effectively
reduced taxes Herbert Hoover was also a
pro bus Republican and pro- private
sector growth this is probably an
oversimplification of things but when it
comes to the political Spectrum we can
say that Herbert Hoover was a lot closer
to Trump than he was to cala Harris now
the stock market soared into this
election excited by these tax cuts and
deregulations ations and they sort for
almost another year following that but
it did not stop the most severe downturn
in history from occurring the exact same
thing can be said about George W bush in
November of 2000 and about Nixon in 1972
both favored lowering taxes and a free
market economy both were not able to
stop a recession from occurring shortly
after so in conclusion in the grand
scheme of things presidents can't do
much to change the course of the
business cycle and financial markets
their policy can definitely prolong or
shorten economic booms or recessions
with favorable or unfavorable policies
but they can't outright prevent a
recession from happening so is Trump's
2024 presidential win a sell the news
event just like all of these major US
elections were well as we just saw in
1928 the stock market was optimistic
heading into the election but stocks
continued to rise for another year
following the election in 1972 the stock
market continued to rise for another 3
months before it today's stocks are
experiencing the ideal Market
environment to thrive economic growth
has been stable inflation has been low
and the US Central Bank has been
lowering interest rates we've only had
this specific type of environment a
handful of times throughout history all
of them are highlighted right here it
seems likely that this environment can
last another few months when we zoom in
on the technical chart of the S&P 500
today we're seeing the index attempting
to break out above a key trend line
resistance if this breakout holds it
opens the door up for a move to 6,500
points by the end of the year now we use
this recent correction to load up on
quite a few different trades on stocks
and cryptocurrencies that were trading
at a discount just a couple of weeks ago
before the election you can access all
of our trades buy and sell alerts the
entire strategy that we have on the
stock market cryptocurrencies commodity
markets by signing up to our website at
braavos research.com